Week 5:

Early in the week we had standup discussing about scrum methodology and project design. We discussed our game design and implementation method in docker 
environment. Team members designed the client server communication using RMI but since professor introduced RESTful services and design patterns, we had to 
adapt to the new requirement.

Team respects each other considering the efforts they bring to the table. Sunil has made an effort to build up the starter code for the docker environment. 
Team discussed about the Restful services and how could we implement it in our game. Since Akshay has a experience in deploying applications in docker, team 
respected his inputs and suggestions regarding the docker usage for deploying applications. Everyone respects each other even if there exist differences in their 
thinking about something. They would bring up their idea during the discussion and respect what others had to say about it. They resolve the differences by 
adapting to idea that helps the project function smoothly.



Week 6 :

This week we had discussions based on game logic development and the design patterns that we need to implement. 
In this discussions we planned and analysed how to improve the game components little by little and collaborate end of the week. 
Every member of the team is contributing something important everyday and these efforts directed towards final picture of our project completion.


when one member is working on some component then others wait for the person to commit and consider his changes and work on it. 
I feel that this attitude is very essential for every project team and our team has great amount of it. Each member values the inputs of other members 
and develops components that is acceptable for the project. We plan to develop code and test parallelly through next two weeks and finally test whole project 
end to end.




Week 7:

During this week’s sprint we accomplished to complete server side modules. Server side code is fully functional, during development it was parallely tested. 
Client side integration and development is been scheduled for next sprint. Next week we are planning to integrate the client logic with server side and test 
parallely. Also we have to deploy it in the docker and test its functioning. It is necessary to have frequent feedback from users in development phase itself, 
so that implementation can be improved during development.

This week we were stuck at some error and sunil was there to quickly provide us the inputs to fix the error. Team respects him because he brings experienced 
thought process to the table. So far team members have displayed great mutual respect to each other. The way team is dedicated and portrays their integrity 
toward accomplishing tasks is worth admiring. As representing respect value i ensured that every member has provided their inputs during discussion and have 
shared their view about the design or project decisions. 


Week 8 :

This week was about finishing up the game development and performing various tests end to end. By practising scrum we feel it makes things progress quickly, 
daily stand ups are key for maintaining the pace in deadline induced scenarios. We wrapped things on both server and client side and we are planning to 
make some non cs students to play the game and teach them binary search concept.


By representing respect value in the team i felt happy as every member respects and values other teammates inputs. Team is happy with each other, the effort 
they put all these weeks and the game is now developed. We have constantly performed tests on individual units and optimized code accordingly. We would push 
the code into docker environment and test by connecting to it remotely.Once we finish up with remote testing we would go for aplha and beta users feedback and 
improvement if need be.
